CHAPTER XIV.
THE IMPRESSION OF INCREASE.
Whether you charge your vocation or not, your actions for the present must be those pertaining
to the business in which you are now engaged.
You can get into the business you want by making constructive use of the business you
are already established in, by doing your daily work in a certain way.
And in so far as your business consists in dealing with other men, whether personally
or by letter, the key thought of all your efforts must be to convey their minds the
impression of increase.
Increase is what all men and all women are seeking.
It is the urge of the formless intelligence within them, seeking fuller expression.
The desire for increase is inherent in all nature.
It is the fundamental impulse of the universe.
All human activities are based on the desire for increase.
People are seeking more food, more clothes, better shelter, more luxury, more beauty,
more knowledge, more pleasure.
Increase in something, more life.
Every living thing is under this necessity for continuous advancement, where increase
of life ceases, dissolution and death set in at once.
Man instinctively knows this, and hence he is forever seeking more.
This law of perpetual increase is set forth by Jesus in the parable of the talents.
Only those who gain more retain any.
From him who had not shall be taken away even that which he had.
The normal desire for increased wealth is not an evil or a reprehensible thing.
It is simply the desire for more abundant life.
It is aspiration.
And because it is the deepest instinct of their natures, all men and women are attracted
to him, who can give them more of the means of life.
In following the certain way as described in the foregoing pages, you are getting continuous
increase for yourself, and you are giving it to all with whom you deal.
You are a creative center, from which increase is given off to all.
Be sure of this, and convey assurance of the fact to every man, woman and child with whom
you come in contact.
No matter how small the transaction, even if it be only the selling of a stick of candy
to a little child, put into it the thought of increase, and make sure that the customer
is impressed with the thought.
Convey the impression of advancement with everything you do, so that all people shall
receive the impression that you are an advancing man, and that you advance all who deal with
you.
Even to the people whom you met in a social way, without any thought of business, and
to whom you do not try to sell anything, give the thought of increase.
You can convey this impression by holding the unshakable faith that you, yourself, are
in the way of increase, and by letting this faith aspire, fill and permeate every action.
Do everything that you do in a firm conviction that you are an advancing personality, and
that you are giving advancement to everybody.
Feel that you are getting rich, and that in doing so you are making others rich, and conferring
benefits on all.
Do not boast or brag of your success, or talk about it unnecessarily.
True faith is never boastful.
Wherever you find a boastful person, you find one who is secretly doubtful and afraid.
Simply feel the faith, and let it work out in every transaction.
Let every act and tone and look express the quiet assurance that you are getting rich,
that you are already rich.
Words will not be necessary to communicate this feeling to others.
They will feel the sense of increase when in your presence, and will be attracted to
you again.
You must so impress others that they will feel that in associating with you they will
get increase for themselves, see that you give them a use of value greater than the
cash value you are taking from them.
Take an honest pride in doing this, and let everybody know it, and you will have no lack
of customers.
People will go where they are given increase, and the supreme which desires increase in
and which knows all, will move toward you men and women who have never heard of you.
Your business will increase rapidly, and you will be surprised at the unexpected benefits
which will come to you.
You will be able from day to day to make larger combinations, secure greater advantages, and
to go on into a more congenial vocation if you desire to do so.
But in doing all this, you must never lose sight of your vision of what you want, or
your faith and purpose to get what you want.
Let me here give you another word of caution in regard to motives.
Beware of the insidious temptation to seek for power over other men.
Nothing is so pleasant to the unformed or partially developed mind as the exercise of
power or domination over others.
The desire to rule for selfish gratification has been the curse of the world.
For countless ages kings and lords have drenched the earth with blood in their battles to
extend their dominions.
This not to seek more life for all, but to get more power for themselves.
Today the main motive in the business and industrial world is the same.
Men marshal their armies of dollars, and they waste the lives and hearts of millions in
the same mad scramble for power over others.
Commercial kings, like political kings, are inspired by the lust for power.
Jesus saw in this desire for mastery the moving impulse of that evil world he sought to overthrow.
Read the 23rd chapter of Matthew and see how he pictures the lust of the Pharisees to be
called master, to sit in the high places, to domineer over others, and to lay burdens
on the backs of the less fortunate.
And note how he compares this lust for domination with the brotherly seeking for the common
good to which he calls his disciples.
Look out for the temptation to seek for authority, to become a master, to be considered as one
who is above the common herd, to impress others by lavish display, and so on.
The mind that seeks for mastery over others is the competitive mind, and the competitive
mind is not the creative one.
In order to master your environment and your destiny, it is not at all necessary that you
should rule over your fellow man, and indeed, when you fall into the world's struggle for
the high places, you begin to be conquered by fate and environment, and your getting
rich becomes a matter of chance and speculation.
Beware of the competitive mind.
No better statement of the principle of creative action can be formulated than the favorite
declaration of the late Golden Rule Jones of Toledo.
What I want for myself, I want for everybody.